the un's health agency says a
significant proportion of gaza's
population is facing catastrophic hunger
and famine likee conditions after eight
months of war thousands of children have
been diagnosed with acute malnutrition
with me is BBC Arabic s shahata say
thank you very much for coming in so
tell us a little bit more about the aid
situation at the moment in in Gaza
there's problem of Aid delivery uh the
G7 uh leaders said yesterday they should
be uh more Aid going to Gaza without any
obstacle
uh the world food program uh said uh
that there is it War houses were hit
twice in uh in June in addition to that
there is uh obstacles for Aid delivery
because of increased fighting in
different areas especially in north and
Central and South everywhere in Gaza so
there is problem in Aid delivery uh to
add to that there is the US state
department impose a sanction on a a
violent extremist group is called tavf 9
which uh looted some Aid uh trucks and
blockade made blockade on a delivery to
uh to Gaza because he said he supporting
the uh hostage families and this what
they need but I think there is a
question mark about that uh in addition
to that there is some uh interviews with
the world food program with some people
in Gaza saying they have nothing uh to
eat in addition to the health situation
the World Health Organization says there
is no medical supplies even there's some
hospitals opened again partially like
Indonesian hospitals in the north of
Gaza but still there is no medical
supplies so is not functioning like uh
full capacity uh in addition to that
there is uh even the uh the interal
court of justice called on Israel to
allow aid for the need people in Gaza so
all of that you know like showing that
there is problem uh in delivering Aid to
people in Gaza people dying and there is
one report a child died yesterday
because of like hunger and there is tens
of children are facing that so the
hunger looming there is problems people
dying people suffering so there is
pressure and Oxfam in this context said
it's a time to action not talks because
talks time is is is over so now is
action time and it seems as though any
progress towards a ceasefire deal which
would also involve trying to get more
Aid in seems to stalled tell tell us a
bit about the situation with the
hostages because there's some some
confusion about how many hostages are
are actually still alive tell us what
what we think the latest is on that yeah
the leaders of Hamas one of them is AMA
hamdan talk to CNN and said like there
two uh hostages were killed RAF recently
because of Israeli raid according to him
and they said no military leaders in
Hamas know how many people of the
hostages died and how how many of them
like still alive so it's confusion
because of the fighting and where the
talks sto so there's a problem because
there is even like there is isra isi
managed to release four hostages in
operation but the result of it was
killing more than 200 people according
to the Hamas Health uh Ministry in Gaza
so the hostage situation is is dire and
is a problematic and the hostage family
calling for Mr Netanyahu to have a deal
but all indicators there is no deal in
the foreseeable future because of the
fighting going on and Israel refusing to
end the war and to uh concede to Hamas
conditions of full withdrawal of Israeli
forces from Gaza in addition to that end
of all end of the war and Israel not
willing to do that as a time as this
time and at the moment we don't we
haven't heard the response really
properly from from Hamas either have we
on on the hisbah um situation the border
with Lebanon and Israel the fighting's
been going on through throughout this
period since since October 7th hasn't it
there's been exchanges of fire in that
situation what's the situation there now
and has that has that got worse yeah it
has been the recent days has seen
witness escalation uh one of the example
in on Thursday hasbullah fired 150
Rockets against Israeli targets and
Israel also made several launched
several raids on uh Southern uh part of
of Lebanon in this context you know Mr
uh macro the French President made a
plan for to help to ease a tension and
for the growing tension between his and
and Israel but you have Gant the Israeli
defense minister rejected the French
proposal which is three lateral uh
contact group of France United States
and Israel and from the other side
United States France and hisbah to uh to
Lebanon Sor and Lebanon to try to ease
the tension between them but Israel
refusing that because you afghanan
Minister the Israeli Minister of Defense
said uh uh France position on Gaza is
not is against Israel and in this case
we cannot accept uh any french proposal
to end hostilities s thank you very much
for coming to Tes thank you